Bill had had more sense than to argue with the big boys when they broke out of the bushes,
looking like ill-tempered hunters on the track of a beast which had already mauled one of
them. Eddie, however, had rashly opened his mouth and Henry Bowers had unloaded on him.
 Bill knew who they were, all right; Henry, Belch, and Victor were just about the worst kids
in Derry School. They had beaten up on Richie Tozier, who Bill sometimes chummed with, a
couple of times. The way Bill looked at it, this was partly Richie's own fault; he was not
known as Trashmouth for nothing.
 One day in April Richie had said something about their collars as the three of them passed
by in the schoolyard. The collars had all been turned up, just like Vie Morrow's in The
Blackboard Jungle. Bill, who had been sitting against the building nearby and listlessly
shooting a few marbles, hadn't really caught all of it. Neither did Henry and his friends . . .
but they heard enough to turn in Richie's direction. Bill supposed Richie had meant to say
whatever he said in a low voice. The trouble was, Richie didn't really have a low voice.
 'What'd you say, you little four-eyes geek?' Victor Criss enquired.
 'I didn't say nothing,' Richie said, and that disclaimer — along with his face, which looked
quite sensibly dismayed and scared — might have ended it. Except that Richie's mouth was
like a half-tamed horse that has a way of bolting for absolutely no reason at all. Now it
suddenly added: 'You ought to dig the wax out of your ears, big fella. Want some blasting
powder?'
 They stood looking at him incredulously for a moment, and then they took after him.
Stuttering Bill had watched the unequal race from its start to its preordained conclusion from
his place against the side of the building. No sense getting involved; those three galoots
would be just as happy to beat up on two kids for the price of one.
 Richie ran diagonally across the little-kids' playyard, leaping over the teeter-totters and
dodging among the swings, realizing he had run into a blind alley only when he struck the
chainlink fence between the playyard and the park which abutted the school grounds. So he
tried to go up the chainlink, all clutching fingers and pointing seeking sneaker-toes, and he
was maybe two-thirds of the way to the top when Henry and Victor Criss hauled him back
down again, Henry getting him by the back of the jacket and Victor grabbing the seat of his
jeans. Richie was screaming when they peeled him off the fence. He hit the asphalt on his
back. His glasses flew off. He reached for them and Belch Huggins kicked them away and
that was why one of the bows was mended with adhesive tape this summer.
 Bill had winced and walked around to the front of the building. He had observed Mrs
Moran, one of the fourth-grade teachers, already hurrying over to break things up, but he
knew they would get Richie hard before then, and by the time she actually arrived, Richie
would be crying. Bawl-baby, bawl-baby, lookit-the-baby-bawl.
 Bill had only had minor problems with them. They made fun of his stutter, of course. An
occasional random cruelty came with the jibes; one rainy day as they were going to lunch in
the gym, Belch Huggins had knocked Bill's lunchbag out of his hand and had stomped it flat
with one engineer boot, squishing everything inside.
 'Oh, juh-juh-gee!' Belch cried in mock horror, raising his hands and fluttering them about
his face. 'Suh-suh-sorry about your l-l-lunch, fuh-huh-huck-face!' And he had strolled off
down the hall toward where Victor Criss was leaning against the drinking fountain outside
the boys'-room door, just about laughing himself into a hernia. That hadn't been so bad,
though; Bill had cadged half a PB & J off Eddie Kaspbrak, and Richie was happy to give him
his devilled egg, one of which his mother packed in his lunch about every second day and
which made him want to puke, he claimed.
 But you had to stay out of their way, and if you couldn't do that you had to try and be
invisible.
 Eddie forgot the rules, so they creamed him.
 He hadn't been too bad until the big boys went downstream and splashed across to the
other side, even though his nose was bleeding like a fountain. When Eddie's snotrag was
soaked through, Bill had given him his own and made him put a hand on the nape of his neck
and lean his head back. Bill could remember his mother getting Georgie to do that, because
Georgie sometimes got nosebleeds —
 Oh but it hurt to think about George.
 It wasn't until the sound of the big boys' buffalolike progress through the Barrens had died
away completely, and Eddie's nose-bleed had actually stopped, that his asthma got bad. He
started heaving for air, his hands opening and then snapping shut like weak traps, his
respiration a fluting whistle in his throat.
 'Shit!' Eddie gasped. 'Asthma! Gripes!'
 He scrambled for his aspirator and finally got it out of his pocket. It looked almost like a
bottle of Windex, the kind with the sprayer attachment on top. He jammed it into his mouth
and punched the trigger.
 'Better?' Bill asked anxiously.
 'No. It's empty.' Eddie looked at Bill with panicked eyes that said I'm caught, Bill! I'm
caught!
 The empty aspirator rolled away from his hand. The stream chuckled on, not caring in the
least that Eddie Kaspbrak could barely breathe. Bill thought randomly that the big boys had
been right about one thing: it had been a real baby dam. But they had been having fun,
dammit, and he felt a sudden dull fury that it should have come to this.
 Tuh-tuh-take it easy, Eh-Eddie,' he said.
 For the next forty minutes or so Bill sat next to him, his expectation that Eddie's asthma
attack would at any moment let up gradually fading into unease. By the time Ben Hanscom
appeared, the unease had become real fear. It not only wasn't letting up; it was getting worse.
And the Center Street Drug, where Eddie got his refills, was three miles away, almost. What
il he went to get Eddie's stuff and came back to rind Eddie unconscious? Unconscious or
 (don't shit please don't think that)
 or even dead, his mind insisted implacably.
 (like Georgie dead like Georgie]
 Don't be such an asshole! He's not going to die!
 No, probably not. But what if he came back and found Eddie in a comber? Bill knew all
about combers; he had even deduced they were named after those great big waves guys
surfed on in Hawaii, and that seemed right enough — after all, what was a comber but a wave
that drowned your brain? On doctor shows like Ben Casey, people were always going into
combers, and sometimes they stayed there in spite of all Ben Casey's ill-tempered shouting.
 So he sat there, knowing he ought to go, he couldn't do Eddie any good staying here, but
not wanting to leave him alone. An irrational, superstitious part of him felt sure Eddie would
slip into a comber the minute he, Bill, turned his back. Then he looked upstream and saw Ben
Hanscom standing there. He knew who Ben was, of course; the fattest kid in any school has
his or her own sort of unhappy notoriety. Ben was in the other fifth grade. Bill sometimes
saw him at recess, standing by himself — usually in a corner — looking at a book and eating
his lunch out of a bag about the size of a laundry sack.
 Looking at Ben now, Bill thought he looked even worse than Henry Bowers. It was hard to
believe, but true. Bill could not begin to imagine the cataclysmic fight these two must have
been in. Ben's hair stood up in wild, dirt-clotted spikes. His sweater or sweat-shirt — it was
hard to tell which it had started the day as and it sure as shit didn't matter now — was a
matted ruin, smeared with a sicko mixture of blood and grass. His pants were out at the
knees.
 He saw Bill looking at him and recoiled a bit, eyes going wary.
 'Duh-duh-duh-hon't g-g-go!' Bill cried. He put his empty hands up in the air, palms out, to
show he was harmless. 'W-W-We need some huh-huh-help.'
 Ben came closer, eyes still wary. He walked as if one or both of his legs was killing him.
'Are they gone? Bowers and those guys?'
 'Yuh-Yes,' Bill said. 'Listen, cuh-han y-y-you stay with my fruhhend while I go get his
muh-medicine? He's got a-a-a-a — '
 'Asthma?'
 Bill nodded.
 Ben came all the way down to the remains of the dam and dropped painfully to one knee
beside Eddie, who was lying back with his eyes mostly closed and his chest heaving.
 'Which one hit him?' Ben asked finally. He looked up, and Bill saw the same frustrated
anger he had been feeling himself on the fat kid's face. 'Was it Henry Bowers?'
 Bill nodded.
 'It figures. Sure, go on. I'll stay with him.'
 Thuh-thuh-hanks.'
 'Oh, don't thank me,' Ben said. 'I'm the reason they landed on you in the first place. Go on.
Hurry it up. I have to be home for supper.'
 Bill went without saying anything else. It would have been good to tell Ben not to take it to
heart — what had happened hadn't been Ben's fault any more than it had been Eddie's for
stupidly opening his mouth. Guys like Henry and his buddies were an accident waiting to
happen; the little kids' version of floods or tornadoes or gallstones. It would have been good
to say that, but he was so tightly wound right now it would have taken him about twenty
minutes or so, and by then Eddie might have slipped into a comber (that was another thing
Bill had learned from Drs Casey and Kildare; you never went into a comber; you always
slipped into one).
 He trotted downstream, glancing back once. He saw Ben Hanscom grimly collecting rocks
from the edge of the water. For a moment Bill couldn't figure out what he was doing, and
then he understood. It was an ammo dump. Just in case they came back
Bicycle playing cards clothespinned to the spokes marking the increase. Bill stood on the
pedals, his hands clamped on the bike-grips with the wrists turned up. He looked like a man
trying to lift a stupendously heavy barbell. Cords stood out on his neck. Veins pulsed in his
temples. His mouth was turned down in a trembling sneer of effort as he fought the familiar
battle against weight and inertia, busting his brains to get Silver moving.
 As always, it was worth the effort.
 Silver began to roll along more briskly. Houses slid past smoothly instead of just poking
by. On his left, where Kansas Street crossed Jackson, the unfettered Kenduskeag became the
Canal. Past the intersection Kansas Street headed swiftly downhill toward Center and Main,
Berry's business district.
 Streets crossed frequently here but they were all stop-signed in Bill's favor, and the
possibility that a driver might one day blow by one of those stop signs and flatten him to a
bleeding shadow on the street had never crossed Bill's mind. It is unlikely he would have
changed his ways even if it had. He might have done so either earlier or later in his life, but
this spring and early summer had been a strange thundery time for him. Ben would have been
astounded if someone were to ask him if he was lonely; Bill would have been likewise
astounded if someone asked him if he was courting death. Of cuh-cuh-course n-not! he would
have responded immediately (and indignantly), but that did not change the fact that his runs
down Kansas Street to town had become more and more like banzai charges as the weather
warmed.
 This section of Kansas Street was known as Up-Mile Hill. Bill took it at full speed, bent
over Silver's handlebars to cut down the wind resistance, one hand poised over the cracked
rubber bulb of his oogah-horn to warn the unwary, his red hair blowing back from his head in
a rippling wave. The click of the playing cards had mounted to a steady roar. The effortful
sneer had become a big goofball grin. The residences on the right had given way to business
buildings (warehouses and meat-packing plants, most of them) which blurred by in a scary
but satisfying rush. To his left the Canal was a wink of fire in the corner of his eye.
 'HI-YO SILVER, AWAYYYY!' he screamed triumphantly.
 Silver flew over the first curbing, and as they almost always did at that point, his feet lost
contact with the pedals. He was freewheeling, now wholly in the lap of whatever god has
been appointed the job of protecting small boys. He swerved into the street, doing maybe
fifteen miles an hour over the posted speed of twenty-five.
 It was all behind him now: his stutter, his dad's blank hurt eyes as he puttered around his
garage workshop, the terrible sight of the dust on the closed piano cover upstairs — dusty
because his mother didn't play anymore. The last time had been at George's funeral, three
Methodist hymns. George going out into the rain, wearing his yellow slicker, carrying the
newspaper boat with its glaze of paraffin; Mr Gardener coming up the street twenty minutes
later with his body wrapped in a bloodstained quilt; his mother's agonized shriek. All behind
him. He was the Lone Ranger, he was John Wayne, he was Bo Diddley, he was anybody he
wanted to be and nobody who cried and got scared and wanted his muh-muh-mother.
 Silver flew and Stuttering Bill Denbrough flew with him; their gantry-like shadow fled
behind them. They raced down Up-Mile Hill together; the playing cards roared. Bill's feet
found the pedals again and he began to pump, wanting to go even faster, wanting to reach
some hypothetical speed — not of sound but of memory — and crash through the pain
barrier.
 He raced on, bent over his handlebars; he raced to beat the devil.
 The three-way intersection of Kansas, Center, and Main was coming up fast. It was a
horror of one-way traffic and conflicting signs and stoplights which were supposed to be
timed but really weren't. The result, a Derry News editorial had proclaimed the year before,
was a traffic-rotary conceived in hell.
 As always, Bill's eyes flicked right and left, fast, gauging the traffic flow, looking for the
holes. If his judgment was mistaken — if he stuttered, you might say — he would be badly
hurt or killed.
 He arrowed into the slow-moving traffic which dogged the intersection, running a red light
and fading to the right to avoid a lumbering portholed Buick. He shot a bullet of a glance
back over his shoulder to make sure the middle lane was empty. He looked forward again and
saw that in roughly five seconds he was going to crash into the rear end of a pick-up truck
that had stopped squarely in the middle of the intersection while the Uncle Ike type behind
the wheel craned his neck to read all the signs and make sure he hadn't taken a wrong turn
and somehow ended up in Miami Beach.
 The lane on Bill's right was full of a Derry-Bangor intercity bus. He slipped in that
direction just the same and shot the gap between the stopped pick-up and the bus, still
moving at forty miles an hour. At the last second he snapped his head hard to one side, like a
soldier doing an over-enthusiastic eyes-right, to keep the mirror mounted on the passenger
side of the pick-up from rearranging his teeth. Hot diesel from the bus laced his throat like a
kick of strong liquor. He heard a thin gasping squeal as one of his bike-grips kissed a line up
the coach's aluminum side. He got just a glimpse of the bus driver, his face paper-white under
his peaked Hudson Bus Company cap. The driver was shaking his fist at Bill and shouting
something. Bill doubted it was happy birthday.
 Here was a trio of old ladies crossing Main Street from the New England Bank side to the
Shoeboat side. They heard the harsh burr of the playing cards and looked up. Their mouths
dropped open as a boy on a huge bike passed within half a foot of them like a mirage.
 The worst — and the best — of the trip was behind him now. He had looked at the very
real possibility of his own death again and again had found himself able to look away. The
bus had not crushed him; he had not killed himself and the three old ladies with their Freese's
shopping bags and their Social Security checks; he had not been splattered across the tailgate
of Uncle Ike's old Dodge pick-up. He was going uphill again now, speed bleeding away.
Something — oh, call it desire, that was good enough, wasn't it? — was bleeding away with
it. All the thoughts and memories were catching up — in Bill, gee, we almost lost sight of
you for awhile there, but here we are — rejoining him, climbing up his shirt and jumping into
his ear and whooshing into his brain like little kids going down a slide. He could feel them
settling into their accustomed places, their feverish bodies jostling each other. Gosh! Wow!
Here we are inside Bill's head again! Let's think about George! Okay! Who wants to start?
 You think too much, Bill.
 No — that wasn't the problem. The problem was, he imagined too much.
 He turned into Richard's Alley and came out on Center Street a few moments later,
pedaling slowly, feeling the sweat on his back and in his hair. He dismounted Silver in front
of the Center Street Drug Store and went inside.
